Volumes: are used to store the data, e.g log, seed data, db data, state data in kubernetes
there are 2 types of Volumes in kubernetes:
1. stateless: are those application which dont have any state, whenever they start or reboot, they start from fresh ,i.e; ephemeral
2. stateful: any application 


Volumes: 
these are ephemeral volume type and can be used in stateless pods
1. emptydir: data will be deleted as soon as the pod is deleted, is used to temp data, if some scratch space for a sort of algorithm,
if computation needs to be done in memory
2. hostpath: data will be kept on the worker node where pod is running, either in a file or a directory, data will not be deleted
once the pod is deleted or restarted


3. Persistent Data:
data will not be removed even when the pod is restarted or deleted
ex: gcedisk, azuredisk, awselasticblockstorage

4. Network Data Storage:
kubernetes also supports Network related storage like: NFS, ISCSI, glusterFS

5. Configuration Data Storage:
Configmaps in kubernetes and passwords can be secrets

HostPath Volume:

host path volume is used for temp data management, data will mount with pod. 
host path volume mounts a file or directory from nodes filesystem into the pod.

user can specify whether the file/directory must already exist on the node 
or should be created on the pod startup.




apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
    - image: k8s.gcr.io/test-webserver
      name: my-app
      volumeMounts:
        - mountPath: /test-pd #whatever you want to mount in pod as a directory
          name: test-volume 
  volumes:
    - name: test-volume
      hostPath:
      path: /data #path of filesystem of the worker node
      type: Directory #optional

types of volume mount:
Directory: directory must already exist on the worker node
DirectoryOrCreate: directory will be created if it does not exist, otherwise data will be copied from the existing directory to the new one.
File: file must already exist on the worker node
FileOrCreate: file will be created if it does not exist, otherwise data will be copied from the existing file to the new one.

