1. all containers inside a multicontainer pod are connected with the same local network
2. all containers inside a multicontainer pod share the same volume

i.e; if you ssh into one of the container and install the netstat library, you can use the same library from another container as well
which is becuase the containers share same volume

if you do a wget from one container to the running port of another container then you can get the response from the other container
as all containers inside the pod share same network


There are usually 3 design patterns for multicontainer pods:

1. sidecar pattern: there are usually 2 containers inside the pods, one will act as a main app container, 
                    and another will be sidecar container which will add additional functionality to the main container,
                    but the sidecar container will not affect the state of the main container

                    example: application and log generations may supply the logs to splunk

2. adapter pattern: there are usually 2 or more containers inside the pods, the application container will be responsible 
                    for generating the data and other containers are responsible to further process that data

3. ambassador pattern: two or more container, where the main application container will connect with the other container
                       to connect with the external world

                       example: main application and network proxy, proxy will connect with external databases
                       not currently supported in k8s, now configmaps are used mostly

Init container: its also a type of multicontainer pod, 

init container is the one that starts and executes before other containers in the same pod, its preparing the environment
init container meant to perform initialization logic for main application hosted on the pod, init container are usually executed in 
sequence. an init container is not initialized unless its predecessor is completed successfully. 
if any of the init container fails, the whole pod is restarted(unless restart policy is set to never).

an init container is a good candidate for delaying the application initialization until one or more dependencies are available.
the health and readiness probe cannot be used in init containers, because they are meant to start and exit successfully. 

ex: if an application has db depency then we can put the db related initialization inside the init container. 

